[tutorials] Working with Lists tutorial (#730)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/working-with-lists/03.md

> The rendering methods we've seen so far make it so that Lit keeps track of the

Reviewer: we

DOM elements and will update them accordingly when the property items change.

> This is usually fine and efficient but sometimes we may want to control how

Reviewer: we on this line and the next

the each item is tied to the DOM element so that we'd rather have the DOM
element move rather than updating.

> For instance, take a look at the example component we have here where each

Reviewer: we and on the next line

todo item is rendered as a list item with a checkbox. We also have buttons

> to sort these items in ascending and descending alphabetical order. Try

Reviewer: "Try checking one..." -> "Check one..."

checking one of the items and changing the sort order. You'll notice that
the item text changes but not the position of the checked box. This is

> because Lit is updating the text rather than moving the entire DOM node.

Reviewer: I feel like this is missing some more exposition on the underlying reason, but I'd trust someone on the core team to provide better wording than I

cc: @justinfagnani @sorvell @kevinpschaaf

This is where the [`repeat`](https://lit.dev/docs/templates/directives/#repeat)

> directive comes in. We can replace the expression that's currently using

Reviewer: we

the `map` method to utilize `repeat` like this.
```ts
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```
```ts
${repeat(
  this.items,

>   (item) => item.id,

Reviewer: explain how `ID` works. This is always a big question from users.

Also a useful comparison I've made before was that setting the ID function to return the index is functionally equivalent to `.map`

  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

Check out the [documentation](https://lit.dev/docs/templates/lists/#when-to-use-map-or-repeat)

> on when to use `map` or `repeat` for more details!

Reviewer: Maybe add a "congrats you're done" step that tells them what more to read up on next like the templating docs or a topic that you think would logically follow lists and arrays like calling `requestUpdate` or `hasUpdated` or how Lit handles reactive properties changes.

Reviewer: oh and add a recap in that section

a key function lets Lit maintain the key-to-DOM association between updates
by moving the generated DOM when required.

To update the current implementaion, start by importing the `repeat` directive.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

```js
// my-element.js
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Then use it in place of the `map` prototype method within the render, providing
the iterable, a key function that returns a unique identifier for a particular
item, and the template to render for each item.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

```js
// my-element.js
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Confirm that this is working correctly by checking an item and changing the
sort order. The check mark should now be moving to be next to the originally
checked list item.

> Keep in mind that the key function provided must return a unique key for an

Reviewer: Remove "Keep in mind that" and maybe change this to a positive aside:

```md
<aside class="positive">

The key function provided must return a unique key for an item.

A key function that simply returns the index would have the same behavior as using `map`. See the [documentation](/docs/templates/directives/#repeat)
for more details.

</aside>
```

Author: Done

item. A key function that simply returns the index would have the same behavior

> as using `map`. See the [documentation](https://lit.dev/docs/templates/directives/#repeat)

Reviewer: remove `https://lit.dev` and make this an absolute link rather than a full URL

Author: Thanks. Updated here and for all other internal links in this tutorial.

> The rendering methods shown so far make it so that Lit keeps track of the
> DOM elements and will update them accordingly when the property items change.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion on wording improvement:
```suggestion
When rendering an array, Lit will create a list of DOM nodes and update them
in the order of the data in the array (reusing any previously rendered nodes) 
eacn render.
```

> This is usually fine and efficient but sometimes it's preferable to control how

Reviewer 3: I think this section needs more careful treatment. In particular, the code shown here demonstrates a BUG and should be called out as such. 

We need to clearly associate this with state being stored in the DOM that's not managed by Lit, as is shown here.

My concern is that otherwise, this seems pretty scary and like a footgun.

Reviewer 3: ^^ We explain this in the docs directly and you call it out in the next slide, but I think it should be mentioned right away up front. Otherwise, again, it seems scary.

Author: The first paragraph was reworded based on Kevin's earlier suggestion and I also expanded the explanation in the following paragraph that explains the current buggy behavior of the example mentioning that the checkbox state lives with the DOM elements that didn't move.

// my-element.ts
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

```js
// my-element.js
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Then use it in place of the `map` prototype method within the render, providing
the iterable, a key function that returns a unique identifier for a particular
item, and the template to render for each item.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

```js
// my-element.js
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Confirm that this is working correctly by checking an item and changing the
sort order. The check mark should now be moving to be next to the originally
checked list item.

<aside class="positive">
The key function provided must return a unique key for an item. A key function
that simply returns the index would have the same behavior as using
<code>map</code>. See the <a href="/docs/templates/directives/#repeat">
documentation</a> for more details.

> </aside>

Reviewer 4: This fourth step is extremely good. I love that the initial code state is broken in a very clear way (which is described). Then the explanation and solution makes perfect sense and solves the original issue.

And TIL!

When rendering an array, Lit will create a list of DOM nodes and update them
in the order of the data in the array (reusing any previously rendered nodes) 
each render. This is usually fine and efficient but sometimes it's preferable
to control how each item is tied to the DOM element so that the DOM element is
moved if needed rather than its content updated.

For instance, take a look at the example component presented here where each
todo item is rendered as a list item with a checkbox. There are buttons to sort

> these items in ascending or descending alphabetical order. Check one of the

Reviewer: > these items...

to

> the list items...

> these items in ascending or descending alphabetical order. Check one of the

Reviewer: > Check one of the items...

This is a command. Start a new paragraph

> (newline) Check one of the items in the preview...

items and change the sort order. Notice that the item's label text changes but
not the position of the checked box. This is because Lit keeps track of the
list of DOM nodes with the checkbox state as they are and just updates the

> values that go into the expression. Ss the checkbox state is not controlled by

Reviewer: remove `Ss`

> Lit, only the label text changes.

Reviewer: > Lit, only the label text changes.

comma splice. Add conjunction or change comma to a semi-colon or an em-dash (–)

> Lit, thus only the label text changes.

If the intention is to keep the list item and checkbox tied to the specific
item of the array, the `repeat` directive can be of help. Using this directive
with a key function lets Lit maintain the key-to-DOM association between
updates by moving the generated DOM when required.

> To update the current implementaion, start by importing the `repeat` directive.

Reviewer: remove

> To update the current implementation,

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

```js
// my-element.js
import {repeat} from 'lit/directives/repeat.js';
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Then use it in place of the `map` prototype method within the render, providing
the iterable, a key function that returns a unique identifier for a particular
item, and the template to render for each item.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// my-element.ts
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

```js
// my-element.js
${repeat(
  this.items,
  (item) => item.id,
  (item) => html`<li><label><input type="checkbox">${item.task}</label></li>`
)}
```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Confirm that this is working correctly by checking an item and changing the
sort order. The check mark should now be moving to be next to the originally
checked list item.

<aside class="positive">

> The key function provided must return a unique key for an item. A key function

Reviewer: if you use litdev-aside. The first sentence could be its own line and be bolded
